1. on the top left corner, click '"Scene". then click "New Inherited Scene".
2. select "Level.tscn" under "res://". click "Open".
3. press ctrl+s, name your scene so we can recognize it's yours, then save it in "customs/levels/".
4. in the "FileSystem" window below the scene tree window, navigate to the main directory and find "Assets.tscn". open it.
5. theres a lot of assets here to make your levels. to begin i recommend using the prefab floors and ceilings under the "Prefabs" node.
6. click on WoodFloorAndCeiling and copy it. go back your your level by clicking on its tab on the top of the viewport.
7. in your level scene, click on "Map" and press crtl-v. the prefab is somewhere in the level now. you dont NEED to put it under Map, but this will be more organized.
8. before you start moving stuff, press "Y" to turn on snap. you can also hold shift for more precision.
9. when you're done messing with it, open your main directory again, click and drag "Player.tscn" into your level. place him on top of your floor.
10. press F6. you made a level.

if you want to import a level you already made, make sure all it's resources are in the project first. then just copy and past your scene level into the level you just made.

ill go over some of the objects in this project

--Triggers

expand the Triggers node in the Assets scene and youll see a variety of triggers. triggers are activaed on player touch or use and then can run events under itself.
copy "Key" into your level, make sure it's under "Triggers" for organization. you can always reparent child nodes if you mess up.
make sure its on the floor and somewhere you can reach it. start your leven and try to press E on it, crouch if you have to.
you should hear a sound and the key disappeared. you did a trigger.
go back to your level click on your key. theres a properties window on the right. the one you care about are "Type" in the "Trigger" category.
select "Touch". now start your level again and you'll activate the trigger by touching it.
try the "Auto" trigger type too. that means the trigger starts as soon as the level starts.

-- Events

go back to Assets and copy "Trigger" under Triggers into your level. set the type to "Touch".
in Assets, find the "Event" node and copy it and place it under your own Trigger node.
in Assets, find "Dialogue" under Actions and copy it and place it under your own Event.
click on your Dialogue action. in the properties menu on the right you will see a medium sized text window. type something in it.
start your level, find and touch your trigger. your text should appear on screen.
in Assets, find the "PlaySound" action and place it in your event. make sure its NOT a child of your Dialogue action. actions should never have their own children. do not put events as children of other events either.
keep in mind the actions run top to bottom. if Dialogue is above PlaySound, Dialogue will run first.
click on your PlaySound action, click on the "Sound" property on the top. click "Load".
navigate to "assets/sounds/" and choose any sound you want.
start your level. when you trigger your event, your dialogue will appear and your sound will play.
now, click on your Dialogue action. somewhere under the text window you will see "Wait". enable it.
when you start your trigger again, your dialogue will finish before your sound action starts now. this is how you queue actions.
some actions are instant and setting Wait will have no effect.
some bugs will happen, for example your sound action plays an ambiance file (plays forever), and if thats set to wait, your event will never progress.
you may also try out the "Wait" action, place it between other actions to have more control.

if you even need help with events please ask me


-- Doors & Conditions

doors are just like triggers, but they have more features
copy any door you like from Assets into your level. if you press E on it, it will open.
if you select "Locked" on the door node, it will be locked and cannot open. we need a key to open it.
if you still have your "Key" trigger, search its event and find its "AddItem" action.
in the "Item" property at the top, you must enter the name of an item in "custom/items/". do NOT include the extension.
if you wish to create your own items, just duplicate one from the folder and name it whatever. these are specific object types, not just any .tres files.
type the name of the item in the property and when you pick up the key, the item will be added to the global inventory.
now try to copy an Event node from Assets to your door. then also copy the "UnlockDoor" action under the event.
click on the event node, and in the properties window you will find "Conditions".
click on the Conditions property, then click on "Add Element". click the "<empty>" field, then click on "New ConditionItem".
"<emtpy>" should now say "ConditionItem". click on it again, and a field called "Item" will show. enter in that name of the item.
now when you pick up the key, you get the item added to your inventory. then when you go open the door, it should unlock.
